P2. P2 found that the information displayed in the IKVT was easy to follow even without
knowing exactly what each piece of information actually meant.
P2 also found that without more of an in depth introduction into each of the tools
P2 Did not realise that it was possible to move the camera around until it was performed
accidentally.
P2 had trouble when moving between questions on the worksheet due to forgetting to
reset the range sliders after using them.
P2 sometimes got confused after changing the view multiple times which caused a
loss of perspective.
“Do exoplanets actually exist”
P2 had trouble with Habitability zone
Spent lots of time playing with the Kinect sensor due to the novelty of it.
Had trouble when zoomed in to far with the Kinect sensor due to getting flustered
P2 predicted that if there was more time to use the visualisation they would have felt
more comfortable and learned more rather than focusing on trying to use it.
Found the layout easy to use and simple to understand however found the range sliders
slightly confusing.
Found the outline of the user in the background of the visualisation useful for maintaining
perspective of where they were interacting with the system
52
Found that all of the information was layed out clearly in the text area. This information
was interesting
The text size of the interaction panel could have been bigger to make it more easy to
glance at.
P3.
P4. P4 found that the key strengths of the system was the ability to sort exoplanets, zooming.
P4 found that the range sliders were not intuitive. P4 also found that the zooming out
speed was not fast enough in the kinect system. Also found that the rotation speed
was to fast.
P4 suggested improvements of making a more consistent speed of zooming and making
the range sliders more intuitive.
P4 found that the mouse system was more useful for gaining information due to increased
accuracy and because the Kinect was more of a novelty and so more time was
spent preoccupied by playing with it rather than looking at the text area.
Keyboard and mouse were easier due to being used to using them.
The body movements for the kinect were what P4 expected but the speeds at which
the visualisation responded were not as expected
P4 did not have any experience looking at 3D visualisations and had only used 2D
graphs.
P4 understood the attributes of the exoplanets bu found it hard to read them and interpret
the visualisation at the same time.
Due to the size of the text in the information panel being size 12font it was difficult to
read quickly. The range tool was also hard to use due to its size.
P4 also wanted more control over where the camera was centered.
P4 felt that more work needed to be put into making the information stand out at the
user rather than needing to be “searched” for.
P4 felt that using IKVT broadened her perception of how information can be graphically
represented.
P4 also felt that the names of some of the attributes were not made clear enough (Eg,
ESI, KOI).
Notes
P4 seemed to have more difficulty using the visualisation than the other users.
P5. P5 found the kinect was fun and very engaging. He found that the use of size and
colours of the visualisation were useful for making the information easy to understand
P5 also found the zooming effect that occurred when planets were filtered with the
range sliders useful for making more accurate selections.
P5 found that some of the strengths of the visualisations were that is gave a sense of
the space between exoplanets, the size and the vast numbers of them.
P5 found that because the information panel was not central in the visualisation that
it required effort to break away from the main visualisation window which broke the
immersion.
53
P5 felt that limiting the amount that the user could move around in the visualisation(
stop being able to go to unnecessary places) would be an improvement, especially
in the graph view.
P5 found that the mouse & keyboard system was the most effective for gaining information
due to the accuracy that it afforded the user and the fact that it required less
time to learn the gesture based controls and more time exploring the data.
Kinect required more of an introduction than was given
P5 found that having the visuals interactive and organised made it better to understand
the complex information.
P5 felt that the layout of the interactive components were fine but could be improved
by making them “pop out more”
P6. P6 did not initially spot the text areas changing as planets were selected until reading
the worksheet
P6 had difficulty with habitability question.
P6 found that using the Kinect sensor was the most fun and enjoyed the method of
hand recognition.
P6 also liked being able to change between views in the visualisation
P6 found that the interaction panel was “simple - not filled with to much information”
and so was easy to use.
She found that the use of 3D components and being able to change views, move the
camera around for better viewing angles, and zooming in and out were some of the
key strengths of the system.
P6 also found that being able to sort the planets according to attributes and then filtering
them to remove the planets she did not want was a powerful tool.
P6 felt that a weakness of the Kinect sensor was that it detected the whole hand rather
than a more controllable interface like a finger.
However P6 did find that the 3D camera was sometimes difficult to control
A suggestion for the system was that smoother movements of the camera and planets
could be incorporated and refine it to make it more user friendly so that it can be used
without any explanation.
A further improvement would be to make the menu more aesthetically pleasing.
P6 found the mouse & keyboard system the easiest to use because it was the interactive
method that she had the most experience with.
P6 found that the interactive method that allowed the most learning was the mouse &
keyboard. This was because more time was spent with it and because she was closer
to the screen and so could read the textual information better. P6 found that she used
more time playing around with the Kinect system trying to select planets rather than
trying to get information.
P6 felt that the seating location was to far away to accurately see what she was selecting
with the Kinect sensor.
P6 noted that a system like this would be perfect for use in schools and education
centers and would interest many people.
54
P6 felt that a key improvement would be to have used more 2D views over 3D views
and to make the interaction panel and visualisation panel more aesthetically similar to
“connect them together”.
P7. P7 found that the visualisation was very easy to use and the way that she was able to
control the exoplanets was fun.
P7 found that a weakness of the system was that it displayed to much information at
once which was confusing.
P7 also found that the keyboard and mouse system was the most useful as it felt more
natural and allowed access to more information as well as making it easier to access
the information she wanted.
P8. P8 liked being able to toggle between the different planetary sorting and filtering. He
also found that the Kinect system was more fun to use but lacked the control that the
keyboard & mouse allowed.
P8 also found that the visualisation was informative and a “neat” way of visualising
what would normally be stacks of information that he would struggle to navigate.
P8 found that a weakness of the system was that there was a lot of concepts that needed
to be understood about the planets and so a glossary would have been an improvement.
He also found that the lack of movement space while using the Kinect made it harder
to use it freely.
He also found that overlapping planets made it hard to make selections with the
Kinect. He also would have liked a way to cancel a selection without having to select
another planet.
P8 found that the keyboard & mouse system gave more control and access to the filters
and sorting.
P8 found that he learned many things whilst using the visualisation and gained an
interest in learning more about Exoplanets which he previously had no real interest
in.
P9. P9 found it very easy to make comparisons between exoplanets due to the sorting
ability.
P9 enjoyed the Kinect side of the visualisation due to it allowing her to get a sense of
the scale of exoplanets found.
P9 found that the strengths of the visualisation with regard to the Kinect system were
that it allowed a fun way of interacting with a serious visualisation. The ability to
rotate the system with its realistic 3D as well as select specific planets and zooming in
an out made it very effective.
The keyboard & mouse side of the visualisation provided an effective way of accessing
the information thanks to the sorting and filtering ability.
Initially P9 was confused as to where the information was displayed about each selected
exoplanet but once she realised it was very easy to use.
P9 found the keyboard & mouse system more effective but enjoyed the interaction
with the Kinect system more.
55
P10. P10 found the animations in the visualisation were enjoyable whilst exploring
He found that it was easy to compare the information for each exoplanet and to get a
sense of the quality of exoplanets.
P10 found that the interaction panel was good but its location was awkward with the
sliders down the left hand side of the screen.
He found that the keyboard was the most effective interaction method for exploring
the data but the novelty of the Kinect sensor was more fun due to its novelty
P10 felt that the interaction panel felt like it was hidden and that there was to much
information displayed in it.
Observations. All users had trouble with the understanding the habitability zones of stars due to
there being no standard habitability to compare.
All users that had extensive experience with 3D software adopted the system much
faster than those that hadn’t and were in general more comfortable.
All users enjoyed the Kinect version more than keyboard & mouse even though it was 
